Transcript: The Foundation of Health
Introduction & The Challenge of Change
Hi I'm Dr. Craig Anderson, I've been a chiropractor almost 30 years and during that time have seen over 230,000 patient visits. One of the most difficult things about being a chiropractor being a doctor, is watching people who are exhausted at the end of their rope, they are just fatigued, they have had a health crisis, and they've decided to change everything. Today. It all changes today.
I love the attitude. I love the willingness to make the change. But when you do that on a weekend and say Monday everything's going to be different my whole life is going to be improved Monday, you're going to fail. You will not only fail but you will teach yourself that you fail. And you will become someone who regularly fails. It doesn't work. It just doesn't work we can't get healthy from willpower alone. Although it takes some willpower. We have to change the approach.
Today I'm going to look at the biology behind making these kind of changes becoming a healthy person. How it works psychologically and how it works in the body. And then by the time we're done, you're going to have one thing to do. And that's it. And the one thing that I'm not going to ask you to do is decide. We're going to work on that together. We're going to make it very easy and very obvious what that one thing you need to do. What's that first step you need to do. So that you can start convincing yourself and showing yourself that you can do this, one step at a time. That's how you become healthy. That's what I've learned over these 30 years of patient care is that baby steps make all the difference.
A Message of Hope & Setting the Framework
Hey if we haven't met before I'm Dr. Craig Anderson I'm a chiropractor I love teaching health I love just helping people get to those goals of being healthy. I've done this at multiple universities I'm currently appointed on faculty at a few universities and none of what I'm doing here is connected to any of my appointments at any facilities this is just my own work and my own sharing of experience that I've learned over three decades of patient care and over 230,000 patient visits. I want to make things very practical and very applicable. So by the end of this video you're going to have something you can walk away with and start doing now.
If you're at a point where you feel unhealthy, it can be very overwhelming. It can be really life-altering. Maybe it's a new diagnosis, maybe it's a realization that you're getting older and you're getting tired, and you can't do what you used to do. But you want to make a change. So I want you to know firsthand up front before we get into the nuts and bolts, that you can make a change. If you're alive, if you can do anything, if you can move, if you're breathing, you can make improvement in your health. So let's just establish that. Nobody is too far gone. Nobody is hopeless. The promise I'll make to you in this video is that your health, regaining your health, takes very minimal effort. It's all about the steps and the hierarchy that you do, and that you don't do too much. And we're going to go into that and I'm going to give you a framework that works really well with starting the journey back to becoming a healthy person.
Most people are highly stressed, they're under demands at work, demands at home, just life demands. And when it comes to deciding to become healthy, these folks, which are usually people who are overachievers and just want to get stuff done, will try to cover everything. And so the first key takeaway is that you can't do it all. You have to build the foundation first, then you work on the rest of it. The topic today is that foundation.
Understanding Unconscious Habits
So before I break down this foundation, let's talk about habits. And I know you've heard this before, but let me give you my slant. A habit is something that just happens. As easy as picking up the phone and browsing. You don't even think about it. I guarantee you that you did not wake up today thinking alright I gotta do a little more phone time. I can do it. Okay, just okay hold the phone I'm gonna go left hand I got everything ready alright now. No, it didn't work like that. You're doing something else you're walking or you're just sitting there you're looking off maybe TV and then what do you know your phone is in your face. That's a habit. That's unconscious. I won't judge whether that's good or bad there's some good and some bad there. That unconscious component is what we need to harness for the good stuff.
Brushing your teeth is an example. When you get up in the morning, you typically brush your teeth I would imagine. And I bet you did not decide to brush your teeth today. But it just happened. You woke up, you walked this little course to your bathroom, that's where your toothbrush is, you brushed your teeth, you move on with your day. It's automatic. It just happens. It's healthy, it's good for your teeth, it's good for your heart, it's good for a lot of different things.
See we know we need to do a lot of these things. We know we need to have these good habits. But when we decide to implement willpower to make that happen, it's not going to happen.
"I recently saw this quote from Jeff Bezos... it was from years ago, but he talked about this idea that stress comes from ignoring things that you shouldn't be ignoring."
Stress is knowing you should do something, but you're just ignoring it. And you can control that. Whatever it is, you can put your attention onto it. Today, we're going to put our attention onto the foundation of being a healthy person.
The Foundation of Health: Three Pillars
Let's get into the foundation of being healthy. We have three pillars that have to be in place for you to be healthy:
Fuel, your intake, your food, what you do, you have to have that right.
Movement, you have to move properly. Movement can include exercise just using your body activity etc.
And third you need to rest.
Those are the three things that I say are the foundation of health. Those three things. I don't want you to think about anything else regarding your health. Let's start here. This is the foundation. It is food, it is movement, and it is rest.
Pillar 1: Fuel
Alright, so fuel. The very first pillar in this foundation. Your body runs on calories. It needs energy just to sit here and you know just me talking I have to have calories I have to have energy to fire cells to fire neurons to fire muscle cells to make my body work so that I can just do this presentation on this video. There are three sources of energy as we know. I'm just going to recap these and we're going to get into it and talk about implementation but we have carbohydrates, proteins, and fats.
If you look at these from a molecular way and see how much energy each of these has, you may not know that:
Energy Source
Kilocalories of energy (per gram)
Carbohydrates
4 kilocalories
Protein
4 kilocalories
Fats
9 kilocalories

So fat has more than double the amount of storage capacity for energy. That's why our bodies use fat to store energy. It's the most efficient way to store energy. Fat. Push it real tight, put it in the middle, and you're storing energy as efficient as you can. Now you need some fat, but you don't need a lot of fat. You don't have to have an extra 200,000 calories of stored fat on your body, but you need some. It is healthy to have fat on your body. You just don't need too much.
So with each of these pillars, I'm going to give you an action step. This is going to be the next very easy thing to do if this pillar is your problem. Now we're not making decisions, don't think about it, don't beat yourself up, just log this away. If fuel is your problem, the one thing I want you to do is change when you eat carbohydrates. What this looks like is that in the morning when you wake up, you're not eating carbohydrates. You're saving that to the lunchtime, or after. Why? Well, at nighttime your body has become adapted to burning fat. When you sleep you're not eating and hopefully you're sleeping a good 6, 7, 8 hours. During that time your body has to shift gears from burning sugar to burning the stored fat. And when you wake up, you're in that mode of burning fat. When you wake up and if there's a lot of hunger, then that tells me that your body is not that good at burning fat. And you may have a problem with too much fat in your body. Maybe. We have to train our bodies to burn fat. So skipping the carbohydrates and pushing that back to noon is a good way to do it.
There's a lot of other ways there's a lot of a lot of ways to approach this but this is one that I found it's very simple. When we look at the 230,000 visits that I had, a lot of times just talking to patients about, hey, skip those carbohydrates, push it back in the day, you can start losing a few pounds of weight. And just slowly over months you start noticing some difference. Then you can build onto that. It takes almost no effort to just skip the carbs. Now if you're getting hungry and you are just starving, that's a little different problem. So I have another video on that, please jump over there. There's a link in our description here, and check the comment, you'll find a link to that as well.
Pillar 2: Movement
The next pillar is movement. So we have to have the fuel, and then what do we do with the fuel? What do we do with the energy? Well, it turns into movement. Anything that is alive moves. Movement is almost the definition of life. When you look at a cell under a microscope, is it moving? If it is, it's alive, if it's not, it's not alive. Movement. This is what you will do if movement is your problem. And I'm going to talk to you about how to figure out which one is your problem, where we're going to start. Like I said I don't want you deciding stuff I want to just kind of walk through with me and I'm going to talk you through that one thing you need to do to start becoming healthy.
So if it is movement, then I'm going to suggest you do a plank every day. 30 seconds. That's it. A 30 second plank. Think about what a plank does. So you're on your hands and you're on your toes and you're you're laying out flat. That plank requires all your muscles to contract. Now the beauty is that you're not moving. You're not moving. So it's a very, very, very safe thing to do. You're not going to injure your back. You're not going to injure anything. It might be a little painful. A little pain is okay, but not too much. What you should do when you're doing a plank, you get down, get on your elbows, get on your toes, and you may feel a little shake. That is what you want. You want that shake. That means you're exercising those small muscles that support you. When you're doing a plank, you're tightening your abdomen, you're pressurizing your organs, you're exercising muscles that support you, you're exercising your legs, you're exercising your shoulder, your neck, your middle back, your lower back, your glutes. Almost your entire body has to contribute a little to do a plank. That's why I love it. I love it as a starting point. A plank, 30 seconds per day, is where we're going to start.
This is a good time to talk a little bit about what is exercise. So, if I'm able to raise my right arm, like I'm doing, and then put it back down, I'm able to do that as an exercise. So I can raise my right arm, and then I can put it back down. One. Raise my right arm, put it back down. Two. I just did two reps of right arm raises. Now let's say I never do that, and for two years I keep my arm by my side and I just leave it there. Well guess what? You won't be able to raise your right arm. You'll have a frozen shoulder. Your body is made to become more stable. And if you never challenge that range of motion, you're going to lose that. You don't want to lose it. So exercise allows you to keep what you have. So you have to exercise what you have to keep it. For example, we exercise our right to vote. We vote, and we get to keep that right to vote. Let's say no one ever voted. A whole country stopped voting. Well, I doubt we would be a country where we can vote. We would lose our right to vote because we are not exercising the right to vote. Same with your body. You lose that ability to reach if you don't exercise that ability to reach. This applies to the entire body. Physically, even mentally. We'll talk about that more down the road sometime.
Pillar 3: Rest
The third pillar, and the last pillar we're going to talk about today, is rest. So let's put it in the context of our foundation. You got to have the energy, you're going to have the energy to move, and you've got to move to stay healthy, to encourage growth, and that requires cells to do stuff. Cells have to rebuild, they have to fix muscles, they have to kind of make you stronger. Well when does that happen? That happens when you're at rest. It almost only happens when you're resting. About 75% of growth hormone is secreted while we are sleeping. Think about that. We have to sleep to repair. If you're not sleeping, you're not repairing. And so sleep and rest is a critical foundation to make things work.
Most people get enough sleep to be minimally functional. What most people need is a little more sleep. Maybe 20 to 40 minutes more sleep. That's what most people need. So the one action in the sleep department, in the sleep pillar, is to simply go to bed 20 minutes before you normally do. You may not feel like you're quite ready to go to bed, but just try to do that, add 20 minutes, and see how that does.
Your Action Plan
Those are the three pillars of the foundation of becoming healthy. Now which one is for you? You need to pick one, and only one, and start with that this week. So which one do you need to pick? Well:
Ask yourself a question around food. How did I eat yesterday? Did I feel like I could have done better? Did I get afternoon fatigue? Did I overdo maybe carbohydrates? Make a decision on how well you did and give yourself a rank, zero to ten. Ten is awesome, zero is terrible. Give yourself a number.
How well did you move yesterday? Were you a couch potato, did you just sit there, did you exercise? What was that like yesterday? Zero to ten. Give yourself a number.
Rank your sleep. Zero, terrible sleep in general. Ten, I slept great. I was almost going to say I slept like a baby. Babies don't sleep that well. They sleep a lot. Well, that's another story. So what number do you have? Zero to ten for each of those three categories.
The one where you're lowest, closest to zero, that's the one you're going to start with this week. I don't care which one it is. Pick one of them. Pick the one you need the most effort in, and just focus on that one thing this week. That's how habits get formed. Habits are formed by doing one very small thing regularly, until it becomes automatic.
Conclusion
Once you get this foundation stabilized, and you have all three of these working, then you can move on to the next step. The next step is more of that cognitive processing, kind of organizing in a greater way your life. But the first step is to get this foundation in order. And it takes a little bit of discipline, just a little. And that's why we're just doing one thing, so that you can train yourself to be disciplined. So that's why it doesn't matter what one thing you do. This is a training to build discipline. It's been said that if you don't discipline yourself, somebody else will. So if you don't handle your business now, in the future somebody else will have to handle that for you. So let's start handling it. We'll see you in the next video.
