V0A1"Hey, I'm Dr. Anderson. Have you ever got to the point where you're like, just tell me what to do. I I just need to know what to do. It takes a lot of effort to plan and to really kind of define that next step. What do I do next? That is a big question, especially when it comes to your health. You may have fatigue, you may be feeling pain, you may be just kind of mentally down, and the question in your mind is, if somebody could just tell me what to do, then I'll just do that. You kind of know what to do, but one of the trouble points is that you know all the things you need to do. I need to eat better, I need to rest. Uh, I should call my dad, you know, I I got all these things I need to do. What do I do next? So as you look at how to maintain your health, I found it really freeing to add some structure. It's counterintuitive to think that structure is freedom. But when you think about it, that really is the case. You got to have structure to have the freedom. For example, a dog in a yard without a fence may be more stressed, but with the fence, less stressed because the dog knows the limits, knows where they need to go, and they can play and enjoy their yard. So a couple weeks ago, I put together what I'm calling a Systemized Operating System, Systemized OS. It's the operating system that I believe has to be happening throughout your life for you to be healthy. So this framework is three levels. We're going to just call it the operating system. This operating system is three levels: level one, level two, level three. So level one is the foundational level. This is the basic level. This is the level that you literally have to have mostly handled to really be effective at the next levels. So level one is your fuel, how well you move, and how well you rest—fuel, movement, and rest. FMR for short, we'll just say that. Level one: FMR—fuel, movement, and rest. So fuel is what you're eating, what you're putting into your body, the actual energy that you're putting into your body. How are you making those choices? What are you eating? What are you doing? How are you doing it? Fuel. Movement is your activity throughout the day. How often do you move your body? What are you doing? Are you running? Are you walking? Are you going upstairs? Are you taking elevators? Are you being lazy? Are you sitting a lot? What What's your movement like? Our bodies are built on movement, really. When we look at our brains, we have to have this movement to stimulate firing of neurons. You just stand up, you run in place for 10 seconds and sit down, you're going to think clearer. It's because movement is absolutely foundational. Level one, foundational. So we have fuel, we have movement, and then we have rest. So you put the energy in. Cool, you got some energy. What are you going to use the energy for? Well, you're going to use it to move, and to do things, and to be active. When you're moving and you're doing things, and you're being active, eventually you have to rest, because rest is where growth happens. It's where our brain can take a break, process memories. It's where our body has a breather from moving and can rebuild. 75% of our growth hormone is put into the system naturally from the inside while we sleep. So foundational principle, foundational level of the operating system is fuel, movement, and rest. So now you have the foundational generally done, or at least within an area in your mind where you don't feel like you're lacking. Two, level two is how well are you doing internally. I call it the internal level. How are you thinking? How are you processing things in your mind? Are you learning? Are you pushing yourself? Are you challenging yourself internally? Are you acquiring new information? Are you building new connections in your nervous system to become healthier, stronger, more cognitively stable, and more cognitively strong? And how well are you connecting? Connecting internally, but also connecting to things that matter to you. This is the level where I would talk about spirituality. So this is the level where I would talk about your connection to a greater purpose, your connection to God, your connection to your creator. Everybody's going to have a different way to look at that. I'm a Christian, I look at it as God being the creator of the universe, creator of everything, giving us purpose and really just driving our world forward. That gives me connection and purpose. So level two is how well are you thinking? How well are you processing? Are you keeping your mental bandwidth under control? Do you have a lot of loops that are open? Are you handling the stuff you need to handle internally, mentally? Are there open loops? Are there things that you have to get done but you're not getting done? So level two is thinking, learning, and connecting. Once you get your process down where you're thinking well, you're you you feel like you you're grounded internally, now it's time to shift to external. Your external foundation, or the external Once you get level one, you get your foundation generally figured out, and you've worked on level two—you're thinking well, you're processing, you're you're challenging yourself, you're pushing yourself, you're connected—connected at the end of level two leads right to level three. So now we're going to look externally. So what's your external world like? Are you getting out of the house? Are you engaging with others? Are you playing? Are you doing things to where you're just having fun? Play is a main component of level three. Organization is my next step. So are you organized? So when I say organized, you might think, I'm going to put that into the internal one, and yeah, that that is somewhat going to help with that. But when I'm using the term organization, I'm talking about your environment, your to-do lists. Are you externalizing your thoughts, projects? Are you writing down goals? Are you writing in a journal? Are you Are you moving your internal thinking and processing externally so that you can essentially offload a lot of that cognitive load that you may carry with open loops? Are they written down? Are they somewhere where you can trust? Can you rely on a system to where you know your future is being built externally, and you don't have to worry about it all the time? So the third level is external: play, organization, and purpose. Your purpose that connects to level two in the way you connect to your creator, those deeper values. What is your purpose? What goals do you have? Why are you doing all this? All of these things come to living a fulfilled, healthy life. So let me overall summarize this. There's three levels to the Systemized Operational System, the Systemized OS: foundational, internal, and external. Foundational: food, movement, and rest. Internal is thinking, learning, and connecting. External is playing, organizing, and purpose. That's the construct. That's the whole thing. So if you'd like a little bit more and you want to take a deeper dive into this operating system, just download the web app. This QR code here will give you a link right to it. It's free, no charge, and you can explore the different levels and the different components of each of the levels on your own. So I hope you found this framework useful. It's a good place to start. It's not all the answers, but it's a framework, it's an operating system. You got to upgrade it occasionally, you're going to have glitches, you're going to have issues that need some some patches. And that's what the Systemized Health channel is for. So if you haven't yet, go ahead and subscribe so you can get those patches, you can get those upgrades to the operating system as we go. I'll see you in the next video. Thanks."
