This is an audio brain sweep. For my next video, I will cover the systemized operating system. There are three levels of this systemized operating system. Number one is foundational. Level two is internal, level three is external. This operating system. Has three levels because... one has to be addressed before level two and three, level one is foundational. Level two and three can be worked on at the same time in general, but working on level two, before getting to level three, is preferred because level three has higher level thinking. The foundational level has... free pillars. The first color is fuel. The second pillar is... movement, and the third pillar is exercise. Fuel, movement and exercise. No, I'm sorry. Fuel, movement, and rest. Rest is the third pillar of the first level. So... these have to happen to give you the fuel, to run your nervous system, to give you the energy, to engage with life. You have to have these areas handled. Now, when you first approach the abilitating or reworking your health, strategies, this is where we start. We started level one. One is... a foundation for a reason. You got to have energy, to move, movement, creates a challenge or a stressor that will encourage growth, growth happens while you're sleeping while we sleep. growth hormone is secreted during sleep. And so rest has to happen as well. These three things all have to work together. Have a good foundation. So when you're doing habit changes and looking at addressing, what you do next, you have to ask the question, what love or we need to work on? Number one, foundational, little two, internal, number three, extra. So, level two is intro. I remember this with the demonic TLC thinking, learning. And connecting. Thinking the more connected, thinking is how you're processing information, right? You're thinking about it. Learning is your cognitive challenge or your challenge of yourself, are you learning? Are you stretching? Are you mentally expanding? And connecting. We have connecting here under internal, because ultimately, there's a connection with a higher purpose and higher power. It has to come from inside of you to connect to your higher purpose. What a lot of people, this has God, connecting to God, getting your thinking and your inter inner world, interior. No, your internal world, internal thinking. And alignment was... God. It's important to our internal house and mother. That's level two. Level three leads to expansion and growth, and, and closer to being the person you want to be with. That is, through several components, one is play, playing is... how we learn, how we structure grow. And it's how we have fun. More notice system says plastic, flexible. And we incorporate new ideas. How we process complex things. You've always seen the typical businessman going out of golf now, playing golf. A lot of deals and a lot of breakthroughs happening. during play. So just gosh. We all have to have some plain large. And it's not... just to waste time. It's critical, warming, and... going to those people. But. The next part, so the three levels, over three pillars of level three, is play, organization. This is more, how do you organize and manage yourself a person? How do you structure your way, structure, information you have to deal with every day, so that it takes minimal cognitive effort when you're talking about, how do you do that? That's organized, I imagine. And then the last pillar of level three. is purpose. Plain. Why are you doing what you do? What's your purpose? How are you gonna get towards your purpose? What plans are gonna get you there? Part of this is goal setting. So it's hard to focus on planning and purpose, man, and you don't even have enough energy to get out of bed, and your foundation is broken in the fuel pillar of level one. It's not happening right. I can have the cognitive bandwidth, cognitive effort to get to finding your purpose, or staying organized. When we are having trouble with life and health, it's... it comes with that feeling of being disorganized. Disorder tends to come. So order happens internally, connecting to a higher purpose, or higher power. Bringing, spending 10 minutes on you, working on how you think, working on the way in the process, that's... the information you bring into your mind, which, what are you reading? What are you digesting? What big ideas and thoughts are wrestling? These are all important for things. Learning is taking that thinking and doing a step further, pushing the thoughts, pushing the envelope. I have some quotes around this idea. I don't like this, it's on a hand card, I'll have to look it up. Remind me to look it up here. So... this is the general basis of systemized health. We're systemizing... how much work's not making you a robot. But giving you a framework or construct, to look at where things may be somewhat broken back. And then the key here, the systemized philosophy of health, is that systems when they're properly installed, take minimal effort. that they're built in their habits that take animal effort. When we try to get action done, if there is a... point in that system, it takes a lot of extra effort, we're often not gonna do it because of that. It's been a great background. Finding that backlog is, uh, some people reach out. and experience looking with a coach. And not only a doctrine, but I also work as a coach, and coaching is different than Dr. Pat's relationship. It is a... relationship that... looks to draw out what you know you need to do. Not to diagnose, not to... Give you recommendations, per se, but help to... guide... a person being coached with... a mentee. It's a mentee relationship. Well, that person achieved the goals that they have. I do coaching. I am trained as a health coach. Setting goals, and building. Clients accountable to those goals is something I did. Now, you may not know if coaching is for you or not. But I have a... systemized discovery call, a systemized health discovery call. that maybe... an interest. There's no charge whatsoever. I'm not even going to act like I'm I have something myself in the future. I'm not going to put anything behind the paywall. This is simply a conversation to find that area where you may be stuck. At whatever level. I'm creating... extra to help you get unstuck. That's the plan. That's what we offer as this discovered account. So... outside of bringing in a outside coach, what do you do? What do you do with this information? How do you know where to start? Well, oneness is intuitive, but the best thing is to look at each of these boxes... in your self score, zero, two, 10. And is awesome, zero, terrible. Put a number in each box. You just add them up. Where are you? Get 'em all up. The level that has the least score to it, at the level you're gonna start working on. I'm going to begin the process. work in your health at that level. Now, inside the level, about you the least score, then you're gonna take the next step on. And you're gonna work on one thing, it can make a difference. Now, coach can help you figure out that one thing. and tease it out, but you know, you know the one thing you need to do. So that's an introduction of the systemized operating system. The operating system is gonna have some glitches. There's gonna be some bugs, and sometimes you need to reinstall the operating system, or just hit control all delete. Maybe you've been trying to do a lot of different things to get your health in order, and you've become somewhat disorganized, disordered, and you don't know what that next step is. Using the operating system, taking a look at it, will give you a starting point to help you get a sense of what's needed. Remember, there's a general sequence of priority. I got to get level one. Foundational, figured out to where you feel good enough with it to move on to level two. Level two is really gets into your thinking a little bit, how you... How you're doing inside your head, and if you're pushing and growing? You can't be static. Neither have to be growing. or you're not going. In the middle of three, gets into using that thinking. Using that connectivity to something bigger than yourself, can inspire you to take that next step. to get out, to play. To get organized outside of your head. in the organized system that's supportive for you. And then connect to that ultimate purpose of why you are here. while you're doing what you're doing. And look at planning. Looking at gold in the future that you want to build. That is ultimate purpose of being healthy. And not just physically healthy, mentally healthy. And we can help the environment, having helpful rules, these are the things that it takes to be another person. Subscribe to this channel for support. Mm Learning in each of these different areas, each video has a different focus. And you'll find the different levels organized into playlists here in the system match to health channel. Where are you? That's where we need to spend some time in that playlist. Learn, comment, interact. I look forward to speaking to you, speaking with you in the Commons.
