Today is the 1st day of my relaunch of my main journal. This channel is a behind the scenes. More for my own purposes, but also get a lot of reps in in recording in front of camera. Recording in front of the camera. I've done videos, podcasts, for decades, really. And looking to get back into the mix, just for my own inch of interest. I also feel like 30 years in clinical practice, as a chiropractor, has provided a wealth of information that can keep me busy for years. So this channel is kind of a rough draft behind the scenes, if you want to see how I'm making these videos, what I'm doing, and more for my own... archival purposes. What did I do day to day so I could look back and kind of get better, improve? The main channel I did, I have personally committed to myself to do it for three years. So today's day number one. Now, you're gonna find videos. On the channel, but... that was mostly just for my own technical... bringing my technical equipment up to speed, getting myself familiar with my new gear. I use an Osmo 3 camera. I have DJI... lapel mics for most of it. I have kind of a boom type mic, but it's a little bit of an off brand. I don't think it's the best quality. Use a variety of pieces of software, mostly luma fusion, to stitch things together. I'm practicing with descript right now to... do quick edits on the shorts. The overall plan and the main channel is to have one long video. And three short videos a week for the entire three years. The videos that are, the video that's dropping today was recorded about... a month ago. One of my biggest paradigm shifts is... all the podcasts, all the videos, everything I've done, the past, I have just winged it. Yeah, I lived it. But after looking at some of my ad lib videos and considering kind of... the way videos are these days, I'm... gonna do kind of a hybrid, a little bit of a scripting. Kind of a light scripting with a little ad lid mixed in. That's part of the practice here. So this video... is a combination of that. I actually sat on my porch with my dog sipping coffee this morning, pulled out my iPhone, and I recorded all these thoughts into the... voice recording app on the iPhone. Then I took the transcripts, and I put it into a... Gemini chat, and said, Hey, organize this in my own words. and cut out some of the ramblings. Just some light edits to take out some of the boring parts, and honestly, for me, it's the way, you know, the way I talk... can be a little drawn out, a little slow, and a little boring, so I'm using AI to rework the outline. Not to write any content, not to bring any creative to the process, but to be the editor, or be one of the editors. Be my junior editor assistant, and then I can do the final edits and make it all work. So after that, I now have a loose scrip, stick it in the iPhone, attach that to the camera that I'm talking to now. That script just goes by, just to give me the cues on what I'm gonna say. It's probably 50% scripted that I'm just reading the words that I dictated previously. So, again, no AI is writing this. These are my words, but just edited for efficiency and listenability. After that's done, the, uh, video basically gets lightly edited in Lumifusion, and 'cause this will be a long video. I won't put any transcription there, and we'll do too much more with it, but I'll load it into... into YouTube. Will upload it, throw some tags, won't worry too much about that. But here's... the part that I am really trying to do, and that's become my own librarian. Essentially, after I produce something, the transcripts become the authoritative asset of that content. And then I take the transcripts, and I basically study them, and I look at them, and see if there's any nuggets that I want to put into my permanent knowledge library, which, essentially, is built around a concept called zetelcasting. Now this gets a little nerdy, but, hey, I'm leaning into my nerd, I guess, in my old age. That'll caston as a, uh, combination in my, my way of using it, cards, and also digital. So, I'm gonna be unpacking this more as we go on this channel. And a little bit on the other channel. So the other channel, my main channel, is... for... coaching people through health issues, education on health, and some personal organization, this channel is gonna be a lot more just kind of the behind the scenes, kind of deep dive nerd stuff that your average consumer wouldn't really want to... to get into, but I'm getting into it here. So, in this channel, unsystemized, we're gonna be talking about, um, Settlecasting, information management, knowledge management, and workflow in producing content, and just running your life. Now, this is also a draft board, a rough draft area for my main channel. So I'm not going to overly talk about my main channel, the name, or even give you links to the channel. You can find it if you want. called system myself, I'm not hiding it, but I don't want this audience to basically be jumping over there, unless you're interested in any of the topics. That comes down to algorithm management, I guess. So the algorithm for this channel, the audience for this channel, is different. It's more of that technical creator type of audience. The audience for the systemized health channel is the 40 to 50 year old who's working through some health problems and needs some systemized strategies in life to help get through whatever problems they're having. The name systemized health implies that I'm creating systems for people, that is true. I generally have an architecture of... healthy living that I call the systemized health operating system. It's three tiers. Tier one, level one, level two, level three. Each of those levels have three tiers in them. And that's unpacked in the main channel. But that's gonna drive my coaching that I'm offering on the main channel. So the coaching comes down to... offering a free discovery call, which I will do, my first channel, my first video that released today, is all about the discovery call. It's free, not selling anything, and props to... Stephen Thompson. Who has a... channel where he shares a lot of good information on... Creating... more of a front end... on boarding. I'd recommend a channel totally. I actually took them up on one of the...
